Alright, let's get into permissions, roles,
and access functions a little bit.
I'm gonna take this first video
just to explain the different pieces of the stuff
that we're gonna be working with.
This stuff is inherently kind of complicated
because when you get into like real applications,
you need some very complex rules
as to who can access what, who can do what,
if you're an admin, can you do something if you own it?
Can you see it?
If you own it, can you delete it?
Can you update it?
Can you only update some of the fields on something
if you are a specific user?
So, whew!
It gets confusing, but let's get into it now.
At the very basics, we have these things
that are going to be referred to as permissions.
And permissions are going to be just like,
these are just gonna be check boxes of
can someone do something or not?
So, something like, can see all users, or can edit products.
Things like that is going to be,
these are going to be permissions.
And we're going to apply them to things and say,
yes or no, can you do these things or can you not?
Now, once you have many permissions,
you can sort of bundle those up into what's called a role.
So you might have an admin where you're allowed
to manage users and you're allowed to manage products
and you're allowed to, maybe you have another one
which is like editor, and you're allowed to read products
but you're not allowed to delete products, right?
Like you're allowed to do the different levels
of what you want.
So, roles are collection of multiple permissions.
And then one step further, we have these access functions.
So, when it comes down to Keystone saying,
alright, are you allowed to view all this products?
Are you allowed to update all of these products?
Are you allowed to query a list of all the users?
There is very basic yes or no functions.
And those are generally gonna be based upon
what role you have.
So what we'll do is we'll code up a function
and we'll say, can this person read all the users?
And that will either return a yes or a no.
And then one step further is sometimes the answer
to can this person view all the products,
the answer to that is gonna be no, not all of them
but they can view the ones that they created
or maybe another example would be orders.
Can this person read orders?
Well, yes, they can read their own orders,
but no, they can't read all of the orders,
and no, they can't update orders,
and no, they can't edit an order,
and also they can't delete an order.
So in that case, what we would do
is we don't return a yes or a no from it,
we're gonna return something like a where clause.
And we're gonna say, okay, give me all the orders
but where the user's ID is equal
to the ID of the currently signed in user.
So, with that sort of high level overlook
over how we're gonna tackle the permissions,
let's get into doing the first part
which is creating a UI for assigning roles.